today we find ourselves at Canoga North
Carolina near Hendersonville in the
foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains
and we're on the edge of their lake here
and I've got my pens out these are the
micron pens I've got a no 8 here this is
what I'm gonna be sketching with
initially I don't use any pencils when
they start sketching I just go right for
the ink and it's time to get cutsies is
what I say and I have the OE I have an O
5 and I have a low 5 for real fine
detail which I might put in after I
that's the color to it I'm gonna I'm
looking out here over the lake and I
tried to keep the paper in the shade if
I can because the white paper and the
Sun really kind of bounces up into your
face and it's hard on your eyes so and
yes I usually paint outdoors with the
sunglasses on because I had cataract
surgery two years ago and the bright
light is really tough on the ice so I
usually have these are brown tinted
sunglasses so they they work very well
and they don't change the color so first
I look at this subject and figure out
what I'm gonna do I'm going to put a
border on this and I'm gonna put it
you notice how careful I do this you
know I'm going to leave a spot up in
this corner here I'm gonna have one of
the pine trees on the lake is going to
break that that is that's a surface that
border okay I'm just using the edge end
of the lake here and it'll be coming in
about here someplace
it'll come in and make a little a little
bit of a jog there there's a little
point that sticks out and then I'll
bring this in and then it's going to
circle down this way and then it'll come
down and go out about here there's some
bushes down here along the water I'm
gonna I'll sketch those in shortly here
the trees there's a tree line behind the
lake and it's it's all pine
it's gonna come across I mean it's gonna
come across to here like so and I'm not
trying to copy what's there I'm just
trying to get the essence of the scene
so come on it across here that's some
more pine trees get over here to the
worm I want the big pine to go up which
is going to be closer to us and that's
right in here this guy's going to come
up and actually break the break the the
line of the that bordered line and then
come down I'm going to put a little bit
of the truck in there in a few places
and it's going to come down and they'll
so maybe have another one right in here
it's going to come down I'm just I'm
just the point that's sticking out here
normal in the water
you want to get the essence of the of
these trees that's what you're after
you're not right and you're not trying
to copy them but there's other trucks
that come in there and then there's a
little land line that we see running
back up the hill here and then we can
see just a little bit of a cottage just
sticking out of that stuff right right
back in here
I'm gonna put some some bushes in there
to help block that back into the trees
and then there's smart there's more
trees in this line here I'll put another
one in right in here perhaps something
like that and then this line here I'll
continue across back there put a couple
Deadwood sticking up there and some more
have it have a couple more coming up
this is here someplace so the idea is
that the building is not in real plain
view of the lake and then there's
there's some shoreline showing up over
here and some work some more tree trunks
in here in places and now the water is
pretty active right now earlier this
morning
it was it was like a mirror reflection
but with the but the breeze right now
why the reflections are pretty well gone
but I'm gonna I'm gonna show some
reflections in here and it'll be it'll
be disturbed
and you won't be able to see it all the
way across there and in these bushes
that are coming around on the shoreline
here they're gonna be coming in here
like so
and again I just I'm not going to try to
copy and I'm just trying to put stuff in
here that it's going to be look like
that line of bushes that are growing up
here along the shoreline and then maybe
one right down here where that goes off
the papers
stop that line and then the hillsides
coming up here I'll probably have some
shadows coming up on this hillside
shadows from the bushes
and we're ready to paint just like that